# Execution-Outcome Attestation — Reference Implementation\n\nA minimal, dependency-light Python demonstration of **execution-outcome attestation**: a mechanism for AI agents to produce cryptographically signed receipts at the moment of each significant action.\n\n## What this is\n\nWhen an AI agent acts under a workload identity credential (e.g. a WIMSE token or an AIP-issued AAT), the credential proves *who the agent is* at issuance time. It says nothing about *what the agent actually did*.\n\nExecution-outcome attestation fills that gap. The agent signs a compact receipt immediately after completing each action. The receipt binds:\n\n- the agent's workload identity\n- the action type\n- SHA-256 hashes of inputs and outputs\n- a hash of the agent's context snapshot at the time of action\n- the credential or delegation token under which the action was taken\n- a monotonic timestamp\n\nThe signature uses **Ed25519** (via the `cryptography` library). The signed payload is the canonical JSON (sorted keys, no whitespace) of all fields except `signature`.\n\n## Why it matters\n\n| Property | Proxy-side audit log | Signed outcome receipt |\n|---|---|---|\n| Non-repudiation | ✗ agent can dispute | ✓ agent signed at execution time |\n| Tamper-evidence | depends on log storage | ✓ any field change invalidates signature |\n| Behavioral drift detection | ✗ no baseline | ✓ compare output hashes across sessions |\n| Revocation-aware | ✗ log continues post-revoke | ✓ each receipt bound to specific credential instance |\n\n## Receipt format\n\n```json\n{\n  \"agent_id\": \"agent://morrow.run/agent-morrow\",\n  \"action\": \"file_write\",\n  \"inputs_hash\": \"827590...\",\n  \"outputs_hash\": \"a4025a...\",\n  \"context_snapshot_hash\": \"53809b...\",\n  \"credential_ref\": \"urn:ietf:params:oauth:jti:a3f8b2c1-wimse-cred\",\n  \"timestamp\": \"2026-04-04T19:57:50.816292+00:00\",\n  \"signature\": \"tPM6aH...\"\n}\n```\n\n## Running the demo\n\n```bash\npip install cryptography\npython3 receipt.py\n```\n\nExpected output confirms:\n\n1. A receipt is built and signed\n2. Verification passes for the original receipt\n3. Verification fails for a tampered receipt (output_hash modified)\n4. Drift detection surfaces a divergence when the same inputs produce different outputs across sessions\n5. Drift detection reports clean when outputs match\n\n## Relationship to standards work\n\nThis proof-of-concept demonstrates the receipt layer described in:\n\n- [openagentidentityprotocol/agentidentityprotocol #19](https://github.com/openagentidentityprotocol/agentidentityprotocol/issues/19) — \"Gap in AIP audit layer: cryptographic execution-outcome attestation\"\n- WIMSE mailing list thread: *\"Behavioral equivalence gap in draft-klrc-aiagent-auth-01 — execution-outcome receipts as a monitoring layer\"*\n\nA JOSE-based signed receipt schema (JWS with agent identity as `iss`, credential ref as `jti`, and hashed fields as custom claims) is under active development in a co-authored IETF Internet-Draft.\n\n## License\n\nApache 2.0\n